# You've Gotta Keep em' Separated: Examining the Efficacy of Proximal Remedies for Method Variance

This project is devoted to understanding the effectiveness of procedural remedies for proximal causes of method variance. The repository is relatively straight forward to interpret in terms of finding what is needed to reproduce our findings. Additionally, a manuscript has been provided that should allow for full reporducibility of the entire published manuscript.

## Abstract

"Scholars have argued that proximal causes of method variance (e.g., mood state, demand characteristics) bias estimates of covariation derived from same-source single time-point observations. To address such method bias, scholars have proposed procedural remedies such as (1) presenting participants with a cover story to disguise the purpose of the survey, (2) randomizing item and (3) scale presentation around filler scales to eliminate the systematic influence of any item and scale context effects, and (4) introducing a brief temporal separation of one-week between assessments of the predictor and outcome variables. There are no experiments demonstrating whether data gathered using these remedies produce results that differ from those where remedies are not utilized. Here, we present the findings from three studies wherein we estimate the correlations between proactive personality and job performance behavior across conditions where these remedies were and were not utilized. We examine the effectiveness of bundling remedies (study 1), using single remedies (study 2), or inserting a one-week separation between predictor and outcome data collection (study 3). Our results demonstrate that estimates of correlation do vary across the remedies. Studies 1 and 3 suggest that bundling proximal remedies or using a one-week temporal separation weakens predictor-outcome correlations, whereas study 2 revealed that using single remedies can produce stronger or weaker correlations. We close with a call for more research, particularly theory development, that explains how design features (e.g., procedural remedies) relate to method bias."  